1 Night deepens with the sound of a calling deer - I hear my own one-sided love. 2 Like a ripple that chases the slightest caress of the breeze - is that how you want me to follow you? 3 Last year's fragile, vanished snow is falling now again - if only seeing you could be like this, like this. 4 Watching the moon at dawn, solitary, mid-sky, I knew myself completely no part left out. 5 Should I leave this burning house of ceaseless thought taste the pure rain's single truth falling upon my skin? 6 Our life in this world to what shall I compare it? It is like a boat rowing out at break of day, leaving not a trace behind. 7 Like the whitecaps rising always in the sea off the Izu shore, let’s on loving like this, tossing, turning recklessly! 8 On Musashi Moor the grasses bend where they will this way or that: but in every little thing I have yielded to you. 9 On a spring hillside l took lodging for the night; and as I slept the blossoms kept on falling even in my dreams. 10 Observe how the haze of spring spreads its gauzy mantle on Miwa Mountain: might flowers be blooming there of which men have no knowledge? 11 So forlorn am I that when I see a firefly out on the marshes, it looks like my soul rising from my body, in longing. 12 deserted temple where the bell's been stolen-cherries just opening 13 October the red shift you were buried in 14 in the garden steel ears for drums come whistling 15 a purple so deep it's almost black the grapes. 16 Our life in this world is like the image one sees in a mirror something that's not really there, but then not really not there. 17 early evening moon - over the field, I felt somehow he was waiting for me, so I came. 18 evening of parting spring, how alive the sutra chanted by that insane girl under the temple wisteria. 19 in the distance gunshots opening the dark 20 even the haze has arrayed itself in stripes for the year of the tiger. 21 in the light of an evening moon shelves of silkworms - faintly white 22 total eclipse - the sun's corona streaming through us 23 As I look now at Gaugin's Self-Portrait I remember when I was in Michinoku - that day I killed a silkworm. 24 I carry Mother on my back into the winter sun, and set her down. 25 Black hair Tangled in a thousand strands. Tangled my hair and Tangled my tangled memories - our long nights of love making. 26 visible lilacs shaped by invisible lilacs 27 a fork in the road turning into a clock 28 Yoshino River flows between Imo Mountain and Mount Se. All the World's Illusion flows between lover and lover. 29 I hold your head tight between my thighs and press against your mouth and float away forever in an orchid boat on the River of Heaven. 30 sunrise darkens the face I dream with 31 a cicada shell--it sang itself utterly away 32 first snow falling on the half-finished bridge. 33 day darkens in the shell 34 more than ever I want to see in these blossoms at dawn the god's face. 35 a wild sea and flowing toward Sado Island, the Milky Way. 36 I go, you stay; two autumns.37 that snail one long horn, one short, what's on his mind? 38 SUNSHINE I think almost without limit. 39 calligraphy of geese against the sky the moon seals it. 40 a tethered horse, snow in both stirrups. 41 I'm going out flies, so relax, make love. 42 not yet become a Buddha - this ancient pine tree, dreaming. 43 in dreams and in awakening the color of the iris 44 As certain as color passes from the petal, irrevocable as flesh, the gazing eye falls through the world. 45 Like a wave crest escaped and frozen, one white egret guards the harbor mouth. 46 summer grass - where warriors dream. 47 a blind child guided by his mother admires the cherry blossoms. 48 O hydrangea you change and change back to your primal color. 49 cherries in bloom throughout the world: to them too, hail amidah buddha. 50 all moving things come to an end a knotty willow. 51 strange - like messengers they fly left, fly right, the fireflies. 52 through midnight rain with the radio on by the dash light, I study the man with whom I am crossing the continent 53 a chill: my soul turns into an icon. 54 I cast the brush aside - from here on I'll speak to the moon face to face. 55 dawn breaks and blossoms open - gates of paradise. 56 death poems are mere delusions - death is death. 57 karma of woman karma of man - entangling dying the world the pattern of a serpent's stomach. 58 when I remember him, oh nightingale high on Mount Tokiwa sing forth our passions till your throat too is dyed Chinese Red. 59 letting the dog out-stars out 60 a child in a swimsuit brings his ear closer to a stone on the riverbank 61 mirrored water - no dream on August Six 62 a light in fog slowly becoming a station 63 in an owl's dream, too - a giant mirror on the ship 64 sometimes I missed my station--spring journey 65 butterfly wings curve into white poppy. 66 octopus traps - summer's moonspun dreams, soon ended. 67 Mogami river, yanking the burning sky into the sea. 68 birth of art song of rice planters, chorus from nowhere. 69 Submit to you - could that be what you're saying? The way ripples on the water submit to an idling wind? 70 like a fish in the sea, this body of mine - cool in the moonlight 71 Kibune River - the rocky waves of its rapids tossing beads of spray, like ice shattered in the moonlight of an autumn night. 72 an aged butterfly's soul playing with a chrysanthemum 73 I bathe to my heart's content in the meteor shower - later in the cancer ward in radiation. 74 To be reconciled with the reality of the dark- I go on wandering, from dream to dream. 75 As the warrior reaches up to straighten his quivered arrows, hail glances from his gauntlet- Nasu 's plain of bamboo grass. 76 at one place it goes through darkness-the ring of dancers 77 The month's last day, no moon a storm hugs the cedars of a thousand years. 78 a winter day: frozen on horse back a shadow. 79 the chrysanthemum didn't spill a dew drop now frozen. 80 a flash of lightning from the north, I look to the north 81 Washing and combing the smell of tear gas from my black hair - I go out and see him. 82 Dead of night, returning home exhausted from the interrogation my period begins to flow. 83 washed hair - in the same sunlight a bee is dead 84 When I (womb for an unborn child) sink into sleep, rain sets in to the darkness like some primeval ocean - 85 this world or the world beyond? on the sea, the sunset glow 86 into the darkness of an old well a camellia drops. 87 moon at heaven's center: I pass through a destitute town. 88 Two young men holding each other in. the inn's stable straw under their soiled underwear, become armored Roman soldiers - one shining flesh. 89 not knowing the weight of the armor - summer willow 90 from the firefly in my hand cold light 91 a camellia falls, spilling out rain water from yesterday. 92 dead squid with the ink it spit out low tide 93 pealing pears - sweet juice drips from the blade 94 canyon replies from the afterlife 95 a motorcycle I rent to my baby brother - short summer night 96 people going home after the fireworks it’s so dark! 97 the light of a candle transferred to another candle - spring twilight. 98 nothing actual the feeling of holding a butterfly 99 in the autumn moonlight rabbits seem to be running over the lake of Suwa 100 a village of a hundred houses and not even a single gate without chrysanthemums
